M3DB Terraform Recipe (#1046)
aiven/devportal: docs/tools/terraform/reference/cookbook/m3db-m3agg-recipe.rst

Setup M3-related services using Aiven Terraform Provider
========================================================

> `Aiven for M3DB <https://aiven.io/m3>`_ is a powerful time-series database that can be used to monitor your Aiven services on a very large scale. `Aiven for M3 Aggregator <https://aiven.io/m3-aggregator>`_ can store your data at various resolutions for different workloads at scale. You can monitor a relational database like PostgreSQL® by sending its metrics to M3DB with M3 Aggregator integration and then visualizing the metrics data on an Aiven for Grafana® dashboard.

Author: I removed the wordings around monitoring and focused on time-series and IoT (as example).

This example shows how to use the `Aiven Terraform Provider <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/aiven/aiven/latest/docs>`_  to create an Aiven for M3 service, an Aiven for M3 Aggregator service, and the related service integration programmatically. 

.. mermaid::

  graph LR
      M3[(M3DB + M3 Coordinator)]
      M3Agg[M3 Aggregator]
      M3 -.-> M3Agg

> In the above diagram, the M3 service contains both M3DB and M3 Coordinator. If you're planning for longer retentions, the M3 aggregator can help reduce the volume of time series data stored by using variable data point resolutions. 

Reviewer: This is technically not correct.
You can do aggregation even without the M3aggregator node. But if you plan to do a lot, having an m3 aggregator node will help

          }
        }
      }
      namespaces {
        name       = "m3_highRes_ns"
        type       = "aggregated"
        resolution = "10s"
        options {
          retention_options {
            retention_period_duration = "1h"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  resource "aiven_m3aggregator" "demo-m3a" {
    project      = var.project_name
    cloud_name   = "google-northamerica-northeast1"
    plan         = "business-8"
    service_name = join("-", [var.service_name_prefix, "m3a"])

    m3aggregator_user_config {
      m3aggregator_version = 1.5
    }
  }

  resource "aiven_service_integration" "int-m3db-aggr" {
    project                  = var.project_name
    integration_type         = "m3aggregator"
    source_service_name      = aiven_m3db.demo-m3db.service_name
    destination_service_name = aiven_m3aggregator.demo-m3a.service_name
  }

``namespaces`` in M3 is used to determine how metrics are stored and retained. There is always one unaggregated namespace which is configured under the ``demo-m3db`` resource ``namespaces`` block. There are three aggregated namespaces defined within the same block for different resolution settings.

> Typically, a low resolution data is retained for a longer period of time than a high resolution data. 

Author: Added another line to explain why high res data takes more storage.

Setup M3-related services using Aiven Terraform Provider
========================================================

> `Aiven for M3DB <https://aiven.io/m3>`_ is a powerful time-series database that can be used when handling very large volumes of metrics and scalability is a concern. `Aiven for M3 Aggregator <https://aiven.io/m3-aggregator>`_ can store your data at various resolutions for different workloads at scale. 

Reviewer: Should we link to devportal rather than product pages?

Author: I was contemplating on that too. Since we're already on the DevPortal and we're talking about products here (not the open-source project), my vote would be to link the product page. But I can change if you feel strongly about this.

Reviewer: I believe what we did as of now is to keep people informed. If we have a devportal article I would move the link to it

Together, they are a perfect choice to aggregate, store, and query large time-series data like internet of things (IoT) sensor readings. 

This example shows how to use the `Aiven Terraform Provider <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/aiven/aiven/latest/docs>`_  to create an Aiven for M3 service, an Aiven for M3 Aggregator service, and the related service integration programmatically. 

.. mermaid::

  graph LR
      M3[(M3DB + M3 Coordinator)]
      M3Agg[M3 Aggregator]
      M3 -.-> M3Agg

In the above diagram, the M3 service contains both M3DB and M3 Coordinator. The service integration between M3DB + M3 Coordinator and M3 Aggregator brings unaggregated metrics from M3 Coordinator to M3 Aggregator. 

> While you can do aggregation without an M3 Aggregator node, a dedicated metrics aggregator can help reduce the volume of time series data stored by using variable data point resolutions. This is especially true if you want the ability to automatically roll-up data over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While you can perform aggregations without an M3 Aggregator node, a dedicated metrics aggregator can help in cases when the downsampling workload is slowing down the ingestion of metrics by the main M3DB.
```

          retention_options {
            retention_period_duration = "1d"
          }
        }
      }
      namespaces {
        name       = "m3_medRes_ns"
        type       = "aggregated"
        resolution = "2m"
        options {
          retention_options {
            retention_period_duration = "6h"
          }
        }
      }
      namespaces {
        name       = "m3_highRes_ns"
        type       = "aggregated"
        resolution = "10s"
        options {
          retention_options {
            retention_period_duration = "1h"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  resource "aiven_m3aggregator" "demo-m3a" {
    project      = var.project_name
    cloud_name   = "google-northamerica-northeast1"
    plan         = "business-8"
    service_name = join("-", [var.service_name_prefix, "m3a"])

    m3aggregator_user_config {
      m3aggregator_version = 1.5
    }
  }

  resource "aiven_service_integration" "int-m3db-aggr" {
    project                  = var.project_name
    integration_type         = "m3aggregator"
    source_service_name      = aiven_m3db.demo-m3db.service_name
    destination_service_name = aiven_m3aggregator.demo-m3a.service_name
  }

> ``namespaces`` in M3 is used to determine how metrics are stored and retained. There is always one unaggregated namespace which is configured under the ``demo-m3db`` resource ``namespaces`` block. There are three aggregated namespaces defined within the same block for different resolution settings.

Reviewer: When you mention the 3 aggregated namespaces it would be good to reference the names and what each one does like
* `m3_highres_ns` downsamples the data to 10s and keeps the data (retention time) for 1h
etc

Author: Good call. Sending that improvement via next commit.

Monitor PostgreSQL® metrics using M3-related services
=====================================================

> Aiven for M3DB is a powerful metrics engine that can be used to monitor your Aiven services on a very large scale. Aiven for M3 Aggregator can store your data at various resolutions for different workloads at scale. You can monitor a relational database like PostgreSQL by sending its metrics to M3DB with M3 Aggregator integration and then visualizing the metrics data on an Aiven for Grafana® dashboard.

Reviewer: Is it an engine or a database? Also, you're using it only for the monitoring of Aiven services but can be used for any time series data scenario

```suggestion
Aiven for M3DB is a powerful metrics database that can be used to monitor your Aiven services on a very large scale. Aiven for M3 Aggregator can store your data at various resolutions for different workloads at scale. You can monitor a relational database like PostgreSQL by sending its metrics to M3DB with M3 Aggregator integration and then visualizing the metrics data on an Aiven for Grafana® dashboard.
```

Author: Hi @ftisiot good point. Using PG as source made it very similar to the other recipe. I'll change the source.

On the "engine" or "database", I took the wording from the landing page of https://m3db.io. I think metrics engine or time-series database - both are Ok. But I can swap metrics engine with time-series database if you prefer.

Author: Similar wording is found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKXVxbvWW3k

I believe that M3, as a whole, is a metrics engine whereas M3DB (a subset) is the time-series database.

This example shows how to use the `Aiven Terraform Provider <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/aiven/aiven/latest/docs>`_  to create an Aiven for M3 service, an Aiven for M3 Aggregator service, an Aiven for Grafana service, an Aiven for PostgreSQL service, and the related service integrations programmatically. 

.. mermaid::

>   graph LR

Reviewer: Also this looks equal to https://developer.aiven.io/docs/tools/terraform/reference/cookbook/grafana-m3db-postgresql-recipe.html with only the addition of M3Agg... should we cover some other techs?

        resolution = "10s"
        options {
          retention_options {
            retention_period_duration = "4h"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }

  // Setting up aggregation

  resource "aiven_m3aggregator" "demo-m3a" {
    project      = var.project_name
    cloud_name   = "google-northamerica-northeast1"
    plan         = "business-8"
    service_name = join("-", [var.service_name_prefix, "m3a"])

    m3aggregator_user_config {
      m3aggregator_version = 1.5
    }
  }

  resource "aiven_service_integration" "int-m3db-aggr" {
    project                  = var.project_name
    integration_type         = "m3aggregator"
    source_service_name      = aiven_m3db.demo-m3db.service_name
    destination_service_name = aiven_m3aggregator.demo-m3a.service_name
  }

``namespaces`` in M3 is used to determine how metrics are stored and retained. There is always one unaggregated namespace which is configured under the ``demo-m3db`` resource ``namespaces`` block. There are three aggregated namespaces defined within the same block for different resolution settings.

- ``m3_default_unaggregated_ns`` keeps the unaggregated data for 2h (retention time)

> - ``m3_lowRes_aggregated_ns`` downsamples the data to 10m (resolution) and keeps the data for 6d (retention time)

Reviewer: downsamples doesn't seem to be a world, we can change it to aggregates

Reviewer: Same for the 3 downsamples below
